---
group: 0002-Running
title: 0007-How do I stop my syslog getting filled up with dropped packets?
id: firehol-logging
kind: faq
---

By default, FireHOL logs all dropped packets (subject to rate
limiting) via standard iptables commands.

We are often asked how to stop FireHOL logging so much, even after
the logging of invalid packets is silenced.

First consider a [Switch to NFLOG].

If you decide NFLOG is no good for you and you are sure you want to go
ahead (it will make things harder if you later want to debug a connection),
there are a couple of options:

1. [Use syslog rules]
2. [Introduce explicit rules to match your policy]

#### Switch to NFLOG

If you then set `FIREHOL_LOG_MODE="NFLOG"` in
`/etc/firehol/firehol-defaults.conf` then FireHOL will use NFLOG with
iptables, rather than the output going to normal syslog.

If you really don't want any logs, then you could stop here.

We recommend capturing NFLOG output, though, by installing
[ulogd 2.x](http://www.netfilter.org/projects/ulogd/index.html).
Most distributions provide a package.

The default `ulogd` configuration logs to a user-controllable file in a
syslog style. It uses a system of plugins and is highly configurable.

#### Use syslog rules

Most modern syslog setups allow you to control what is logged and
where. Here are some [detailed suggestions for rsyslog, including
lg rotation of the output](https://blog.shadypixel.com/log-iptables-messages-to-a-separate-file-with-rsyslog/)

#### Introduce explicit rules to match your policy

So long as a rule is hit, FireHOL won't log anything (unless that rule
is one that you have attached the log target to, of course!)

If you want to ignore certain packet drops, just set up an explicit
rule, e.g. to not log ssh connection packets:

~~~~ {.firehol}
interface first eth0
  policy drop
  client all accept
  server ssh drop
~~~~

Note we match the policy, so the behaviour is unchanged, except we never
reach the default logging rules.

If you really want to get rid of everything, finish each interface
and add a final router (if you have any) as follows:

~~~~ {.firehol}
interface first eth0
  policy drop

  ...

  server anystateless nolog drop # Prevent logging

interface second eth1
  policy drop

  ...

  server anystateless nolog drop # Prevent logging

# more interfaces / routers

# Only add this if you have other routers
router nolog
  server anystateless nolog drop # Prevent logging
~~~~

This will catch all default locations for logging of unmatched packets
and has the advantages of being explicit about what you are trying to
achieve and more fine-grained than a global variable.
