---
group: 0003-General
title: 0001-How did you come with this idea?
id: where-idea
kind: faq
---

When you have to manage several dozens of Linux systems and you have a
team of engineers to do the job, then for the firewalling of all those
you have to find solutions so that:

-   **Each member of your team can setup firewalling in a consistent way.**

    In the past, I have seen all kinds of misconfigurations in iptables,
    even when I was building the rules. Iptables is not easy, it
    provides many alternatives for doing the job and each engineer knows
    or likes just a few of them.

-   **Each member of your team knows exactly how each service operates,
    which ports it needs, how to prevent various attacks, etc.**

    Again this is not easy stuff. Some techies are more experienced than
    others and many have very limited knowledge of the underlying stuff.
    To see the complication, if I tell you to setup a firewall for an
    FTP server supporting active and passive mode, how much time do you
    need to find the exact iptables rules and successfully configure the
    firewall?

-   **Each member of your team can examine and modify the firewalling
    rules that another member build some time ago.**

    This is a real nightmare. If I give you 200 iptables rules,
    how much time do you need to figure out what is happening and
    make a few changes?

-   **For Quality Assurance, ensure that there is an easy way for auditing
    the firewall quickly.**

    This is very important. Firewalling is the place that tells you
    exactly what is allowed and what is not.

I believe that FireHOL solves all these problems in an ideal way. Of
course there are many wonderful iptables generators out there, many of
them with many more features than FireHOL, with GUIs, centralised
configuration of many systems, etc. But consider the following:

-   **FireHOL abstracts the service definitions from the firewall rules.**

    In FireHOL you say "I run a FTP server here" and you don't care what
    FTP means for iptables. FireHOL takes care of this detail, so the
    engineers can focus on what they already know: The machine runs an
    FTP server.

-   **FireHOL minimises the configuration directives.**

    Do you know how many iptables statements this represents:

    ~~~~ {.firehol}
    route "smtp http ftp" accept src not "a.client b.client c.client" dst "a.server b.server c.server"
    ~~~~

    It is **92** iptables statements and it would be more than 1000 if
    in the clients list there was the <%=
    html_to('UNROUTABLE_IPS','/keyword/manref/firehol/variables-unroutable')
    %> variable.

-   **The FireHOL configuration file is the best place to look for what a
    server does.**

    This is actually the first thing I use to audit the
    configuration of my servers. I just take a look at the firewall
    configuration. Even if something more is running, I am sure that it
    cannot be accessed from the outside world.

    Also, this is why I like the
    <%= html_to('client','/keyword/firehol/client') %> statement so much.
    Personally, I expect all production systems to be configured with
    client statements that specifically allow only client requests that
    are really needed. Although it is pretty helpful for workstations, I
    consider

    ~~~~ {.firehol}
    client all accept
    ~~~~

    as a security threat for production servers.

For all the above, I consider FireHOL as the most **functional** way for
working with iptables firewalls.
